# Graduate_Project: N-Queens Problem Solving Algorithms
# Introduction
This project presents a Python-based solution to the classic N-Queens problem, where the goal is to place N queens on an N×N chessboard such that no two queens threaten each other. It includes implementations of various AI search algorithms, namely Breadth-First Search (BFS), Depth-First Search (DFS), Backtracking Search, and Simulated Annealing, to explore different approaches to solving the problem.

# Installation
To set up this project, ensure you have Python installed on your system. No additional libraries are required outside of Python's standard library.

1. Clone the repository:

            git clone https://github.com/Musharraf94/AI_Graduate_Project.git
   
   
3. Navigate to the cloned directory.

# How to Run
To run the program and see the solutions generated by each algorithm, execute the run.py script:

            python run.py
   
This will display the solutions found by each search algorithm for the N-Queens problem.

# Features
BFS and DFS: Deterministic algorithms that explore the chessboard systematically.
Backtracking: An optimized DFS approach to find solutions more efficiently.
Simulated Annealing: A probabilistic technique to explore various board configurations.
Each algorithm has its unique approach and demonstrates different aspects of problem-solving in AI.

# Acknowledgments
This project was developed as part of Artificial Intelligence Course at the University of Arizona. Special thanks to Professor Tyler Millhouse for guidance and support throughout the project.
